Adjust Draft (#6)
namib-project/draft-coap-mud: draft-jimenez-t2trg-mud-coap.md

---
v: 3
coding: utf-8

title: Using MUD in Constrained Environments
abbrev: MUD and CoAP
docname: draft-jimenez-t2trg-mud-coap-latest

category: std
submissiontype: IETF
consensus: true

area: IRTF
workgroup: T2TRG Research Group
keyword: CoAP, MUD, Problem Details

venue:
  github: namib-project/draft-coap-mud

author:
 -
    ins: J. Romann
    name: Jan Romann
    organization: Universität Bremen
    email: jan.romann@uni-bremen.de
    role: editor

>  -

Author: ```suggestion
 -
    ins: H. Damer
    name: Hugo Hakim Damer
    organization: Universität Bremen
    email: hdamer@uni-bremen.de
    role: editor
 - 
```

    ins: J. Jiménez
    name: Jaime Jiménez
    organization: Ericsson
    phone: "+358-442-992-827"
    email: jaime@iki.fi

entity:
        SELF: "[RFC-XXXX]"

--- abstract

> This document provides some guidelines on how to add Manufacturer Usage Descriptions (MUD) to constrained environments.

Author: ```suggestion
This document specifies new methods for adding Manufacturer Usage Descriptions (MUD) to constrained environments.
```

As stated in the introduction, this strategy is currently NOT RECOMMENDED for constrained devices, as only MUD files encoded as JSON are defined at the time of writing.
This recommendation will most likely be updated once a canonical encoding format for MUD in CBOR becomes available.

On the other hand, `/.well-known/mud-url` MAY be used to expose a URL pointing to a MUD file hosted by an external MUD file server.
This MUD file also MUST describe the device the URL was retrieved from.

### CoRE Link Format

Resources which either host MUD URLs or MUD files MAY also be indicated using the CoRE Link Format !{{RFC6690}}.
For this purpose, additional link parameters are defined:
With the link relation-types `mud-file` and `mud-url`, a link MAY be annotated as pointing to a MUD file or a MUD URL, respectively.
Note that the use of these relation-types is not limited to constrained environments and can also be used to annotate links in other contexts as well.

<!-- TODO: Mention resource-type and /.well-known/core -->

<!-- TODO: Add example -->

> ### Resource Directory

Author: TODO: relation-type vs resource type

RES: 2.05 Content
     Content-Format: TBD123456 (application/coral+cbor@identity)

     rd-item <coap://[2001:db8:3::101]/mud/box> { rel "mud-file" }
     rd-item <coap://[2001:db8:3::102]/mud/switch> { rel "mud-file" }
     rd-item <coap://[2001:db8:3::102]/mud/lock> { rel "mud-file" }
     rd-item <coap://[2001:db8:3::103]/mud/light> { rel "mud-file" }
~~~

> ### Multicast

Author: Possible additions:
- "All MUD nodes" multicast address
- "All MUD controllers" multicast address (or reuse "All Routers address"?)
    - Alternative: All MUD Receivers

Author: - Requirement: packets need to be allowed to get through
- Scopes of addresses used for multicast?

Author: Well-known endpoint for controllers

Author: Additional methods for finding the interface(s) of MUD controllers.

Author: Restructure document: Well-known resources first, then methods for discovery.
